- [Instructor] A web service
is only as good as its documentation.
The OpenAPI spec allows you to easily document
an existing service or create the documentation first
and generate a service from it
which is usually how I use it.
But let's take a look at how to do the former.
So let's go into our room service application.
And the first thing we need to do
is we need to bring in a dependency.
Now we could definitely add it to the POM,
but I want to show you another way that Quarkus
allows you to add dependencies.
So I'm going to to jump to the terminal real quick.
So in the terminal I'm going to navigate
to our room service application.
And from here, I'm going to do a Maven command.
Quarkus add extension,
dash D extensions equals,
Quarkus smallrye,
OpenAPI,
and this is going to use the plugin to add an extension.
So I definitely could've added it to the POM,
but again I wanted to show you what you can do
with the actual plugin itself.
So let's jump back into our IDE now.
And because I did this outside,
I'm going to let Maven run real quick,
to make sure it's downloaded everything internal.
And while that's going on
I'm going to go to source main resources,
and open up the application on properties file.
And in here, I'm going to put in a property
of Quarkus.swagger UI enable,
and I'm going to set that equal to true.
So now when I start up my application,
and while that's finishing up,
I'm going to go to a web browser.
So in my web browser I'm going to go to local host
8080/swagger UI.
And you'll see that again,
a pretty decent documentation page,
that shows you what I've done with the rooms.
It shows you any parameters, the response code.
Pretty basic, but at least it gets you something
without any work at all.
But let's make this page a little bit more robust.
Let's go back to our IDE,
let's add a couple more properties.
So MP, OpenAPI,
extensions, smallrye.info.title,
and we are going to call this one
LinkedIn Learning API.
And now once again, MP OpenAPI,
extensions smallrye, info
and we're going to set our version equal to 1.0.0.
Version is very important when dealing with web servers.
Smallrye,
and we're going to do a description.
And our description is going to be
learning Quarkus for LinkedIn Learning.
And that's all we need to do.
I'm going to go ahead and restart the application.
With live reload I shouldn't have to,
but sometimes the properties don't always pick up
like I would like them to.
So if I modify properties, I go ahead and restart it.
And now we'll jump back into our browser,
and we'll do a refresh once again.
And you'll see that now we've populated
the top of our page with some more information
about the LinkedIn Learning API that we've created.
We've titled it, we've given it a version,
we've told you what version of OpenAPI spec we're using.
We've given it a description.
There's a lot more fields you can populate here.
License information, contact information for support.
Again, it's a very long list.
OpenAPI spec tells you a lot about it,
and the Quarkus documentation does as well,
but that's really the gist of it.
Now one of the cool things about this document here,
is I can come down here,
and look at the schema.
I can look at the detail of the object itself,
and I can take a look at all the details,
like accept header, things like that.
Again, very easy documentation with very little work.